# caribou_MiSeq_project
Repository for maintaining scripts and tools used in processing and analysis of caribou (Rangifer tarandus) high-throughput sequencing amplicon data. 


## Workflows

The scripts herein contribute to 5 unique workflows, each with the purpose of caribou genotyping


### Microsatellite Profile Genotyping

1. trim.sh
2. megasat.sh


### Sex Identification

1. trim.sh
2. sexID.sh


### PRNP Disease Tolerance Genotyping

1. trim.sh
2. prnp_align.sh > prnp_vcf.sh


### DRB Immunity Haplotype Genotyping (IN PROGRESS)

1. snp_trim.sh
2. drb_align.sh
3. drb_vcf.sh


### Genome Alignment

1. trim.sh
2. genome_align.sh




## Process Descriptions


### trim.sh

Used for quality-trimming and quality assessment. **Trimmomatic** removes adapter sequences, removes low-quality sequences, and removes truncated sequences.  **Fastqc** generates quality reports for trimmed sequence data. **Multiqc** combines reports generated by Fastqc to easily summarize quality information.


### snp_trim.sh

Insert text here


### genome_align.sh

**Bowtie2** aligns trimmed sequence reads to the caribou reference genome. **Samtools** takes SAM output from Bowtie2 and converts it to a set of sorted, compressed BAM files.


### megasat.sh

megasat.sh runs **MEGASAT_Genotype.pl** (Zhan *et al,* 2017, https://github.com/beiko-lab/MEGASAT), taking the output from trim.sh as input and generating a file of microsatellite genotypes.


### sexID.sh

**Bowtie2** aligns trimmed sequence reads to the caribou ZFX/Y locus for sex identification. Bowtie2 SAM output is converted to BAM using **samtools*, then a custom script generates a sexID table for all samples run.


### prnp_align.sh

Insert text here


### prnp_vcf.sh

Insert text here


### drb_align.sh

Insert text here


# drb_vcf.sh

Insert text here
